if you're using AdWords then keep
watching because I'm going to show you
how to perform a quick health check to
find wasted spend in your account hi
guys I'm Ed leak owner of midus media
and we're a Google partner agency
managing over 1 and a half million in
AdWords spend each month before we dive
in just a few sort of caveats um first
and most critically don't ever do an
audit don't ever do a a review of an
account after you've made loads of
changes so if you're working on this
with multiple people or you've just
inherited an account be sure to check uh
the change history first I'm also
assuming that you're you're tracking
your conversions cuz why wouldn't you
and that you know your kpis I.E you're
optimizing your account to CPA cost per
acquisition be it a lead or a sale or
your tracking spend versus Revenue if
you're e-commerce for example and that
you don't just want to send traffic to
your website because that's burning
money a couple of rules of thumb here so
time frame if you're working on an
account month to month so 30 days is
obviously acceptable but if you're doing
a an audit I'd recommend going back sort
of 90 days the past quarter you can even
do a whole year it does depend on your
market so use a bit of Common Sense bit
of logic goes into that but yeah be
careful of 30 days okay first on the
checklist is your campaign settings I
know it sounds obvious but do check that
your location targeting is correct so in
the example here we're targeting London
England UK uh the greater London area
more importantly when you're targeting
locations of this nature so a specific
region a postcode ZIP code or County and
so on and so forth look at your location
options Advanced you do not want to be
targeting people in searching for who or
who have shown an interest in your
Target location which is actually the
recommended Google setting try it and
you'll see that you get a lot of noise
people from random countries all sorts
of crap you want to be targeting people
in my targeted location which is the
second of the three options that will
cut out a load of noise and a load of
wasted Impressions and potentially
wasted clicks as well uh next on the
list is AD delivery ad rotation and
frequency capping so you want to set
your ad rotation to rotate indefinitely
this stops Google skewing the data when
you're testing your ad copy it also
bypasses the the fact that Google wants
to optimize for clicks which spends
money and that's not really what you
want to do next on the health check is
Google search Partners most will have
this enabled because it's enabled by
default so the quickest way to see the
performance here is to go to all
campaigns and then segment network with
search
Partners rattle through to the bottom
and you will see the expand button next
to Total search and you'll have Google
search versus search Partners so what
you you're looking at here for example
in this account is the cost uh per
acquisition the cost converted click
metric and we can see that actually
search Partners is more expensive
however be really careful particularly
if you're looking at a longer uh time
period you're you're looking at the
total here not campaign to campaign so
do go back up and check if you you know
if you see an anomaly there if it's
within Reasonable Doubt you know your
your cost per acquisition or your cost
to convert whatever it may B uh search
partner versus Google search is within a
few percent of each other 5% I'd say
stick with it if you see that there's
quite a disparity there and that search
partners are costing you a lot more
money before you just disable it jump
back up to each individual campaign and
look at them look at them on a caseby
casee basis start with your you you know
your biggest spending campaign first cuz
that's where you're going to make all
the difference is it working if it's not
turn it on off it's really that simple
now moving on to keywords so this is a
really quick and simple view to take but
click on your keywords sort them by cost
make sure you've got your cost per uh
conversion column and your search
impression CH column
enabled and then you can literally see
which keywords are costing you money are
they performing I.E their cost per
conversion and in respect of that are
they getting sufficient impression share
so long as that their their CPA their
cost per sale per lead per acquisition
is under your target uh and this account
is Believe It or Not
£500 uh because their their leads are
worth a lot of money so all these
keywords are falling under that then
that means that if your search
impression share is low I.E less than 95
97% you've got room to bump the budget
up and get more leads and get more
conversions which is good
news all the keywords on screen here
could actually have their budget boosted
which is great news in fact one of them
is only getting 63% impression share so
there's another third and a bit of
budget to go into this one because it's
it CPA is actually quite low in
comparison as well so that's a really
quick view to understanding how your
keywords are are performing versus your
budget versus versus
conversions next look at your ad groups
in your highest spending campaign the
whole point uh of AD groups are they're
containers for related keyword so take
look out for for ad groups that got more
than 20 keywords as a rule of thumb
because it's highly likely that they
aren't closely related and closely or
thematically linked together and that's
what you want to achieve you want to
achieve maybe a you know smaller ad
groups that are very tightly matched so
you can tailor the the ad very
specifically to the keywords in that
group which will bump up your
click-through rate should increase your
quality score as a result and as long as
the landing page is appropriate will
increase your conversion rate and lower
your cost per acquisition so split out
any of your larger ad groups into much
smaller targeted
groups and then whilst we're on the
subjective ad groups take a look at your
ads you want every single ad group to
have two active ads per group not three
not one uh if you've got one you're not
testing so you can't split test one
versus the other and if you've got three
or more then your tests are going to
take much longer to to do and I know
what you're thinking Ed how do I test
ads it's a pain in the backside well
there's a really simple equation um
makes it even simpler if you've got two
ads in your ad group you literally take
your clickthrough rate and you'll
conversion rate and you times them
together it gives you a number and then
that number the highest number wins
essentially so they add after that
equation highest number wins next on the
list is ADD extensions these can be set
at the campaign level uh which is the
lazy option or you can set these at ad
group level so you can tailor them more
specifically per ad group and uh you
know per campaign if you so wish the two
bare minimum that I would use is call
out extensions and site links call out
extensions are three pieces of
descriptive text that go under the ad
extend the ad to make it larger and site
links are as they sound they are
literally links through to your website
so tailor those links to supporting
products and Pages or or services that
uh suit your ad introducing ad
extensions typically boosts your
click-through rate that has a a small
impact positively on your quality score
and so long as you tightly group your
keywords in your ad groups you're going
to drive up your click-through rate and
hopefully you're going to drive down
your cost per
acquisition and finally device
performance so jump back to your all
campaigns view or pick out your your top
spending campaign uh click on segment
and then go by device and what this will
show is the all the metrics for
computers are desktop computers versus
um mobile devices now currently tablets
is listed but unfortunately God Knows
Why Google doesn't offer any kind of uh
bidding options on tablets so we we
essentially have to ignore them um which
is just weird but yeah anyway so this is
really straightforward you simply look
at your you know your average position
your cost per clicks your click-through
rates um more importantly you know your
cost per acquisition um and you can bid
up and bid down your desktop and your
mobile devices typically I would use
desktop as The Benchmark and then look
at your mobile is it costing less or
more and tweak it and this is
interesting as well because it will
highlight some significant mobile
browsing issues if if you've got uh you
know if these numbers look pretty ugly
then you need to address issues with
your mobile view of your website so
that's it a really quick check of your
AdWords account so I'd appreciate any
likes if you found the video useful
click the button below thank you very
much uh until next time I will see you
then cheers